.TH DIALC 1 "June 2026" "A/UX Workstation" "Local Commands"
.SH NAME
dialc \- Dialtone P3/FDO command line client (AOL 3.x revival)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dialc
[\fB\-v\fP] [\fB\-p\fP] [\fIuser\fP [\fIpass\fP [\fIhost\fP [\fIport\fP]]]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dialc
is a terminal client for the Dialtone AOL 3.x revival network
(production dialtone.live:5190).  It speaks the real P3 wire protocol
- CRC-16/IBM framing, sliding window sequencing, token dispatch - with
binary FDO payloads compiled byte-for-byte like a vintage client.
Chat, instant messages, and the news reader run in a multi-window
ncurses interface.  Without credentials an AOL-style sign-on form
appears; any name and password signs on as an ephemeral guest.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p
plain line mode (pipes and scripted tests; auto-joins the room)
.TP
.B \-v
verbose P3 wire tracing with frame hexdumps (implies \-p)
.SH COMMANDS
/chat joins the Dialtone Lobby; /im <name> <text> sends an instant
message; /news goes to the news window and /news <1-5> reads a story;
/w <n> switches windows; /help and /about open their screens; /leave
exits the room; /quit signs off.
.SH KEYS
esc-<n> jumps to window n (esc-0 menu, esc-1 news); ctrl-n and ctrl-p
cycle windows; arrows pick headlines or scroll; pgup/pgdn page;
ctrl-a, ctrl-e, ctrl-u, ctrl-w edit the input line; ctrl-l repaints.
.SH SOURCE
github.com/iconidentify/dialc (MIT).  The A/UX build recipe and compat
notes live in the se30 repository.
.SH SEE ALSO
rxvt(1), auxtop(1), DOCUMENT(7) in /DOCUMENT
